We warmly welcome all of you to JW Broadcasting.
This month's theme is imitate Jehovah's generosity.
Our program will bring us closer to our great God, Jehovah.
Here's a sample.
What will you do in paradise?
Some of our young ones share what they look forward to in the New World
and how their hope draws them to Jehovah.
The Book of Hosea can teach us profound truths if we know how to find them.
We'll explore Hosea together and learn how to dig for our own treasures.
You Christian sisters are beautiful examples of compassion, self-sacrifice, humility, and so much more.
But at times some of you may feel that others don't notice what you do.
This month's music video will assure you that your brothers and sisters love and appreciate you very much.
There's much to look forward to in this edition of JW Broadcasting.
Humans are born with a strong inclination to imitate.
In fact, very young infants have been observed imitating facial expressions.
That's amazing.
Makes me think of an experience I had some 40 years ago when Susan and I were in the circuit work.
A sister told me that her little five-year-old son was looking in a mirror and making various expressions with his face and eyes.
His mother asked, what are you doing?
He said, I can't do like brother let.
I'll never be a circuit overseer.
Well, I'm sure he soon learned that voluminous facial expressions are not a requirement for circuit work.
In fact, they could be a disadvantage.
By the way, thank you for putting up with me all these years.
But how does a small child learn to walk, feed himself and talk?
He learns by imitating his parents and others.
However, there's one type of imitating that does not come automatically or even easily.
It's identified at Ephesians 5.1.
It says, therefore, become imitators of God as beloved children.
Notice the word become.
We are not born as imitators of God.
Because of inherited imperfection, we aren't even born with an inclination to become an imitator of God.
Genesis 8.21 says, for the inclination of the heart of man is bad from his youth up.
Therefore, it takes earnest effort to become an imitator of God.
But it's well worth the effort and Jehovah will help us.
What blessings will we personally read if we become an imitator of God?
The greatest blessing, Jehovah will see that we are trying to be like Him and He will love us and draw close to us.
Also, the more we learn about Jehovah and strive to be like Him, the more we'll love Him and the closer we'll draw to Him.
Cultivating Godly qualities will result in improved relations with others.
Imitating Godly qualities will make us a better person overall.
The more we like Jehovah, the happier we'll be.
That's how He created us.
Those are just a few of the blessings we'll reap if we become an imitator of God.
In our publications, more than 40 different qualities of Jehovah have been identified and discussed.
But in this discussion, let's examine just one.
We'll discuss the theme, imitate Jehovah's generosity.
Generosity is an aspect of Jehovah's love.
Unquestionably, Jehovah God is the most generous giver in the universe.
Let's talk about this.
Eons and eons ago, Jehovah God was all alone.
And even though it's impossible for us to comprehend, He wasn't lonely or lacking anything, but because of love.
He generously chose to share the gift of life with others.
He decided to become a father, a creator.
Logically, He began by creating a son with whom He could directly enjoy fellowship.
As we know, this son became known as the Word, as Jehovah's spokesman.
But then, at some point in time, again, not because of loneliness or lacking anything, but because of love.
He chose to further expand his family by creating millions of angelic sons who could also directly associate with him.
Then amazingly, further down the stream of time, because of love, He again chose to expand his family.
These children were a lower form of life, but ones who were made in His image, and whom He loved deeply.
Of course, we're talking about Adam and Eve.
The original parents of all of us.
If Jehovah had not created them, none of us would ever have been born.
Yes, life itself is a wonderful, miraculous, and generous gift.
Without this gift, we wouldn't be able to enjoy any of Jehovah's other marvelous blessings.
Let's now talk about Jehovah's generosity when it comes to physical gifts.
Every good gift and every perfect present is from above.
Think for a moment about the planet we live on.
Jehovah created the earth as a beautiful and unique home for us.
It has all the right conditions to sustain life, including the oxygen and water cycles that continually recycle essential resources.
If the earth were closer to the sun, all the water would boil off, and the planet would be a barren rock.
Conversely, if it were farther from the sun, the water would freeze, and the planet would be like an uninhabitable iceberg.
Jehovah placed the earth at the perfect location, often called the Goldilocks Zone.
Think too about the marvelous gift of our human bodies.
Even in our imperfect state, as mentioned at Psalm 139.14, we are wonderfully made.
Isn't it brilliant how our skin is designed to heal when we cut, scrape, or bruise it?
When we scratch, scrape, or dent our car.
Does it heal itself?
Can you imagine what we would look like if every time we damage our skin, it just stayed that way?
We'd begin to look pretty rough in just a short period of time.
And isn't it amazing how the skin allows water to exit the body in the form of perspiration?
But at the same time, it doesn't allow water to enter the body when we take a bath.
Otherwise, we'd become waterlogged.
Ponder for a moment about how food is not only nutritious, but it's also delicious.
This makes fueling our bodies very enjoyable.
Jehovah could have made eating like putting gasoline in a car on necessary function, but void of enjoyment.
Think of all the tasty varieties of food as just one example.
How many varieties of grapes are there?
According to the Food and Agriculture Organization, there are about 10,000 different great varieties worldwide.
Jehovah could have given us just two varieties, red and green.
But why do we have some 10,000 varieties?
Because of Jehovah's voluminous generosity.
But now we ask, how can we imitate Jehovah's generosity in giving physical gifts?
It's obvious that Jehovah's put a lot of thought into his gift giving so that his gifts are practical and beneficial.
Likewise, we should prayerfully meditate so that our gifts are useful.
Not all gifts are practical. One brother gave this example.
A puppy might make a fine gift to a young one living in a rural setting.
But it's a terrible gift to a Bethelite.
If our brother lacks food, clothing or shelter, we don't just say, go in peace, keep warm and well fed.
No, we apply Proverbs 3.27, which says, do not withhold good from those to whom you should give it if it is within your power to help.
In addition to helping brothers in need directly, we can indirectly help them by making donations to the worldwide work.
The governing body prayerfully strives to use wisely these precious dedicated funds to help our dear brothers who have been afflicted by natural or man-made disasters and who urgently need suitable kingdom halls and assistance in many other ways.
Speaking of the need for kingdom halls as just one example, please look at these pictures from the Philippines.
Here are six before and after photographs.
And what do you think was the individual average cost of these six new simplified but dignified kingdom halls?
$21,000 US dollars.
Please think about this.
Jehovah's physical gifts such as the rain, sunshine and oxygen are recurring.
What's one way to imitate this aspect of Jehovah's giving?
Well, 1 Corinthians 162 says, on the first day of every week each of you should set something aside according to his own means.
In harmony with the scriptural principle many have chosen to set something aside each month by scheduling recurring online donations.
But now let's briefly contemplate Jehovah's spiritual gifts which are even more impressive.
Think about the Bible.
Where would we be without it?
Lost, hopeless, floundering.
We'd have to learn by experience, the school of hard knocks.
We'd need at least two lives to live.
One to practice and the second to perform.
Next, think about the Holy Spirit.
John 1426 describes it as a helper, teacher and a remembranceer.
It is the most powerful force in the universe and Jehovah gives it to us generously.
Consider for a moment the resurrection hope.
It strengthens us in time of great distress when death takes a loved one.
Or when we face death ourselves.
I'm reminded of the six-year-old girl who said,
thank you, Jehovah, for the resurrection hope.
It is a very good idea.
For a final example, what was Jehovah's greatest spiritual gift of generosity?
The gift of his son to purchase us from sin and death.
And it wasn't just any angel whom Jehovah sent.
It was his firstborn, his only begotten son.
What if you were tied to a chair and forced to watch the torture and execution of your most beloved child?
That would be horrible.
Of course, Jehovah was not tied, but because of his great love for us.
He restrained himself and allowed the torture and execution of his most precious son.
That is the ultimate example of generosity.
But now we ask, how can we imitate Jehovah's generosity in giving spiritual gifts?
One way, by being generous and giving sincere commendation.
If you see something good, say something good.
Proverbs 15, 23 says,
a word spoken at the right time how good it is.
Words have great power.
To illustrate, think of how two words from a convention chairman can lift thousands of pounds.
What are they?
Please stand.
In this vein, Proverbs 1821 says,
death and life are in the power of the tongue.
Just a few words at the right time can make a tremendous difference in a person's life.
They can cause a depressed one to stand with a positive hope for the future.
Another way, freely give out forgiveness.
Colossians 313 reminds us that Jehovah freely forgives us and that we must also do the same.
The word freely in English means generously and can also mean without charge.
Is there someone you can extend true forgiveness to in imitation of our generous God?
Additionally, how about generously giving out knowledge?
Do we pray for a Bible study and then work in harmony with those prayers by searching diligently for a deserving one?
Do we liberally train others and share the skills we have in the ministry and in the maintenance and construction of theocratic facilities?
People in general often hoard the knowledge they have in order to protect their job.
But like Jehovah, we gladly share the knowledge we have with others.
During our discussion, we barely scratch the surface regarding Jehovah's generosity and how we can imitate Him.
We will learn forever about our great God and how we can better reflect His qualities.
But in the meantime, the more we learn about Him and the more closely we can imitate Him, the richer, happier and more satisfying our lives will be.
And why? Because that's how He created us.
Another way we imitate Jehovah's generosity is by showing hospitality.
Do you sometimes hold back?
Our next segment offers practical suggestions that can help you.
What mattered most to me was that everything was just right.
My apartment had to be spotless and the dining table had to be full with different types of food, completely full.
I was worried that our apartment wasn't big enough to accommodate guests, not even for a meal.
I was often wondering if we would have enough time for invitations or if it would be too stressful.
Before my financial situation was much better, currently it's not good, but I manage.
The brothers and sisters are such a precious gift from Jehovah. This is truly the family He gave us.
The brothers and sisters have shown us so much love, and I want to do all I can to express my gratitude.
The best way to do so is just by spending time together.
We're happy to take time for our brothers.
So many of the friends live alone or just want someone to spend time with.
It's nice when we can show hospitality in our homes, but I've learned that hospitality starts in the Kingdom Hall.
After all, Jehovah has invited all of us to be his guests.
I prefer to stand right by the entrance. This way I can notice any interested ones that come to the meetings.
A warm smile shows personal interest, and lets them know I'm genuinely happy that they've come.
Brothers and sisters in the congregation are my family. That is why I want to hug them.
Kiss them, ask them how they feel. They should feel happy just as I am.
I am normally pretty tired after the meeting. I've had a long day and still have the rest of the week ahead of me.
But that is the case with the others too. Sometimes there are things they would like to share.
Taking the time to listen to them can really make their day.
I plan to invite four to five friends every other week.
To my great joy my plan came true within a year and a half. Everyone was invited, and everyone came.
Brothers usually ask me what to bring. I say, don't bring anything. Just your beautiful smile.
And bring someone who you know very well, but who I don't know.
There have been times after the meeting when we've said to each other, we just have to invite someone over.
Then we go around asking people sometimes four or more until we find someone who has time.
This has led to so many beautiful moments together. No one feels pressured or expects anything extravagant.
Everyone is relaxed and it feels like a calm evening with family.
One experience completely changed my view of hospitality.
A friend of mine called me and said, hey, I'm close by. Do you have time? Can I come over?
I thought, what am I supposed to cook? At that moment, the doorbell ring.
My friend was already there. The only thing I could think of to cook was pasta with sauce.
When we sat down to eat, my friend said to me, Stephanie, pasta is my favorite food.
That was a great moment.
I live a simple life. To host brothers, I need to spend some money.
However, there are leaflets with special offers. I checked them to see what's discounted.
The friends are happy, and I didn't spend a lot of money.
We've had several brothers spend an ITM. They come for pioneer school, elder school,
and other theocratic projects.
It's so encouraging to see their positive attitude when they come home in the evenings.
It's priceless. They're energized from the school and they have so many upbuilding thoughts.
Their positivity is contagious.
Our apartment isn't very big, so we wondered where our guests could sleep.
We decided to turn the office into a guest room.
We had to move the desk into our room, but now we have space for an air mattress for our guests to sleep on.
It's a great solution.
I take photos of my guests and stick them into my photo album.
We live in such times when it's normal to get said sometimes. It happens to me too.
My remedy for sadness is to take the photos, look at them.
Remember our get-togethers, remember our laughter, remember the atmosphere we had, the experiences I heard.
I meditate on them and that lives me up again.
When I see how happy my guests are, it makes me truly happy.
Spending time together not only strengthens our friendships with each other, but also with Jehovah as well.
We live in such insecure times.
We really don't know what life situations we will face next.
Not only are we affected by these situations, but others are also.
Making the best out of the time we have together helps to build friendships strong and meaningful friendships.
There are so many different personalities in the congregation.
And the time is coming when it will be essential for us to stick together.
We will face more and more pressure in this system of things.
But we will be ever more thankful for the friendships and the congregation that can help us to resist this pressure.
Together we are stronger because we can all support and rely on each other.
How timely!
That same Watchtower article made this point.
As pressures mount, we will need the deepest of love between us and our brothers and sisters.
Yes, by generously extending hospitality, we strengthen the bonds of love among us.
We need that close bond with our brothers and sisters, especially when we suffer a painful, unexpected tragedy.
Marcella, Maite and Jackie faced such a crisis.
As we hear their story, notice how their strong faith helped them and their family endure.
I'm from Colombia. I have five more sisters.
I learned the truth from a very young age through my parents.
It was a very active spiritual life.
My dad lived the truth. He wasn't just in the truth. He lived the truth.
And he always tried to pass that on to us.
He made sure that we never went to school without reading the day's text first. That was essential.
We could be late for school, but we couldn't leave the house without reading the text.
We were a big family, but we were always at the meeting. We filled two rows.
He was always concerned about the well-being of the brothers. He was always available.
He was very hospitable. My mom as well.
So he used to invite his Bible students and the brothers to our house.
And I remember that he would close the kitchen door, put on some music, and cook a delicious meal.
He liked to keep everything fun, and for us girls to have fun, especially when we were together as a family.
He would give each one of us what we needed and enjoyed.
He used to take us for walks on the weekend, after the meeting, and after preaching.
It was a privilege to have a father like that.
Well, that day, I remember that we were at home.
He was going to put the car in the garage.
Someone came to the car and threatened him and my mom, with machine guns, to get him out of the car to kidnap him.
We heard a noise.
We all got scared and ran outside.
And then I remember that my dad was on the ground.
And some men had shot him.
He was just left there.
I just picked him up in my arms.
He was taken to the hospital.
And a few hours later, he died.
My dad's last words were,
Jova, protect my daughters.
Take care of my daughters and my little lady, them and my mom.
My mom, she was strong.
She gave us, she gave us a lot of strength, and she carried on with the spirit of routine.
The same week that my dad died, we had a meeting.
And my sister, Raquel, had a talk.
And even though my dad had died the day before, she gave her part in the meeting the very next day.
That next week, we had an assembly.
We didn't miss it.
So we wanted to follow that pattern that my dad had left.
It was very difficult and complicated.
But Jova always took first place in all the decisions we made.
They were always made while thinking of Jova and the loyalty that my dad always had shown toward him.
I carried on as if he was alive, trying to keep all my sisters together.
And in the truth, you know.
At first, I prayed to Jova for peace.
Give me the peace that surpasses all understanding.
And now, when there is something that is harder, I say to Jova, Jova,
preserve the peace that you have already given me.
Don't let this trial take away my peace.
And that's when Jova strengthens me.
Well, I'm very fond of my sisters.
I have a lot of respect for them because they were like extra mothers to me.
Three of my sisters still live in Colombia, so we make sure to stay in touch on the phone or on Zoom.
That way they can see how mom is doing.
Some of my relatives who are not witnesses wanted to have some of my sisters look with them to finish raising them.
But we didn't want our family to be split up because that was not my dad's plan.
His plan was for all of us to make it into the new world serving Jova together.
All his efforts, all his life, and all that he devoted to Jova are not going to be in vain just because he was no longer with us.
We can't let that all go away.
My dad taught me so many simple things about creation and about Jova that instilled love for Jova in me.
That was something that I didn't know at that time was going to help me to move forward.
But then I always say, wow, dad's not here.
But he left me another father, Jova.
And that's what's helped me to move on.
In paradise, what I long for the most is those last words that he said,
Jova, my wife, my daughters, is to be able to stay to him.
Look, here they are. We are all here.
We made it. You did a good job.
As my Tay said, their parents truly lived the truth.
Their example nurtured in their children a deep love for Jova and built a sure hope in the promises to come.
Parents, your efforts to build faith in your children can produce a lifetime of benefits.
Listen to what these young ones say about the paradise.
In paradise, everyone is happy, they have fun, and it's a very beautiful place.
You can live forever in paradise so you can become friends with everyone from all over the world and become one big family.
In paradise, there are mountains, forests, rivers, lots of flowers.
And you can hear people singing and laughing. It's exciting.
You can't really go near animals and play with them now.
But in paradise, they won't hurt you or try to bite you so you can play with them and have fun.
I want to have a race with the cheetahs in the paradise.
In paradise, Satan will be no more, so fun will continue forever.
The meek will possess the earth and they will find exclusive delight in the abundance of peace.
Now, I can recite the scripture by heart.
Right now, there are a lot of disasters and crimes.
But in paradise, there are going to be lots of good and happy things.
There will be smiles everywhere.
Sophia was imagining that she was in a garden full of butterflies.
And Sophia's imagination about paradise.
She saw the little lizard-like girl that worked in Neumann's house.
And she played with a lot of different butterflies.
Caleb and Sophia's dad said that it's good to picture yourself in paradise.
Because you can rejoice in the hope.
By thinking about myself in the beautiful paradise, I can be patient during hard times.
I want to live with my family and animals in a tree house with a swing and a slide.
Here in paradise, birds are singing happily. This is me and my family.
I want to meet David.
It's because I want to know why he had so much trust in Jehovah and how he could be so courageous.
I want to meet resurrected Daniel in paradise and ask him how he felt when he was thrown into the lion's pit.
Jehovah promises so many fun and happy things.
I think he is a kind God.
Jehovah is really powerful and has a lot of wisdom.
And he is also kind.
I think he is just really great.
Jehovah never lies.
So all his words come true and he is a very loving God.
Jehovah loves you young ones.
He wants you, your family, and all who love him to be in paradise.
Learn all you can about the Bible.
And when you do, you'll make Jehovah your best friend.
The Bible is a treasure trove.
But discovering its spiritual gems takes effort.
To help us develop good personal study habits, the governing body is pleased to introduce a new series.
Dig for treasures.
In our first episode, we explore the Book of Hosea.
The Book of Hosea is packed with spiritual treasure, wouldn't you say?
Yeah, absolutely.
It reveals aspects of Jehovah's personality, his sovereignty, and there's so much we can apply ourselves.
We just have to know how to find the treasure.
In that case, let's dig into Hosea.
Love too.
So a good way to start is by watching the introduction to Hosea video.
It gives an overview of the book.
It helps us to understand the historical context.
And most importantly, it shows how it connects to God's kingdom.
That's a great study tale.
Hey, thanks.
The video mentioned that Hosea's career as a prophet continued for about 60 years during a time of great political turmoil in Israel.
That wouldn't have been an easy assignment on its own.
But we can start to dig deeper by asking some questions.
Asking questions is such a fundamental step in digging for treasures.
So for example, how did Jehovah choose to start Hosea's prophetic career?
Hosea 12 says,
Go, marry a woman of prostitution, and have children of prostitution.
Yeah, can you imagine the first thing that Jehovah tells you as a prophet is that he wants you to marry a woman who's going to be unfaithful to you?
I wonder how he felt.
What was his initial response?
What went through his mind, knowing that marital infidelity awaited him.
Many who have gone through that circumstance say that it's an excruciating and devastating experience.
But that's not all.
That verse also mentions,
have children of prostitution.
So there were children involved.
Hosea and Goomer had a son together,
but later Goomer had two other children, likely out of wedlock.
I wonder what that was like for Hosea.
Right?
And if they weren't his,
when did he find out?
How did he feel taking care of these children?
There are so many questions we can ask to make the account real.
Now, I've been asked this before, and I'm sure you have two.
Why would Jehovah ask Hosea to put himself in such a painful family situation?
It doesn't seem right.
How would you respond to that?
It's such an important question when we're digging for treasures.
So think about it.
Jehovah really told him why,
in that same verse where he commissioned him.
Because by prostitution, the land has turned completely away from following Jehovah.
The all scripture book says,
Israel had been the Jehovah like a wife,
who had become unfaithful, committing fornication.
Yet he would show his love for her and try to recover her.
Hosea's wife, Gomer, could accurately illustrate this.
So, by having Hosea experience something similar to what Jehovah was going through with Israel,
Hosea could better empathize and communicate how deeply the people had hurt Jehovah.
Yeah, I can only imagine the weight that gave to Hosea's words.
Now, here's the big question.
What does this reveal about Jehovah's personality?
What stands out to you?
Here's something surprising about this account.
How, Jehovah told Hosea to take Gomer back.
Hosea chapter 3 verse 1 says,
Go once again, love the woman who is loved by another man and is committing adultery.
Just as Jehovah loves the people of Israel while they turn to other gods,
Hosea taking Gomer back wasn't to be mechanical.
Jehovah told Hosea to love this woman again.
Yeah, that's a much different response than simply pretending everything is okay.
That's restoration.
So, it shows that even though Jehovah was deeply hurt,
he still loved Israel and wanted them to return.
And not just out of obligation,
he wanted to restore that loving intimate relationship.
That's Jehovah's loyal love.
What a glimpse into Jehovah's personality.
And really, his sovereignty.
He is not only loyal, he is a god of loyal love.
Outstanding.
Okay, so the next step, make it personal.
The study tips on the back of the watchtower suggest, identify lessons and apply them.
So, let's take a way.
Disloyalty causes Jehovah so much pain.
But the opposite is also true.
When we imitate Jehovah's loyal love, he must be so pleased.
So, when we do our best to maintain a loving atmosphere in our marriage,
even though it isn't easy, or if we feel mistreated.
When we are loyal to our brothers and sisters and work to restore a damaged relationship,
even when they hurt us, we make Jehovah happy.
Yeah, we're imitating him.
It's not mechanical, it's an act of loyal love.
We don't just forgive, we love.
Another takeaway.
Maybe we've hurt Jehovah by our actions in the past.
Those memories may stay with us even if we've repented and gained forgiveness.
We might find it hard to forgive ourselves.
But that's not how Jehovah wants us to feel.
Just like with the Israelites,
he still wants to be our God and assure us of his forgiveness and loyal love.
Remembering this account can give us peace when we've made a mistake.
Look at what we can find with just a few steps.
Getting an overview from the introduction video.
Asking questions to dig into the details in context.
Looking for what it teaches us about Jehovah's personality and then making it personal.
The book of Hosea is packed with such gems.
And we didn't even dig everything out of those verses.
Why did Jehovah require Hosea to pay to buy Gomer back?
What do the names of the children reveal about Jehovah?
Why did Jehovah hold out a hope of a future king from David's line?
How can I imitate Hosea's example of accepting challenging assignments?
There is still so much there.
Then let's keep going.
There's no end to the treasure we can find in the book of Hosea.
When we dig for treasures, we immerse ourselves in the lives of people like us.
We witnessed Jehovah's qualities in action.
And what we learn, we can apply in our daily lives.
In future episodes, we'll dig into Amos, Micah, Habakkuk,
and other Bible books sometimes called The Minor Profits.
We hope this new series inspires and equips you to discover treasures in your personal studies.
We make Jehovah happy when he sees us doing our best to serve him.
What are other benefits of knowing that Jehovah sees all the good we do?
That question is answered in this morning worship talk presented by Brother John Ekran.
So how can we benefit from knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do?
Our friends, our workmates and family, they see some of the good that we do.
But no friend relative or even mate can see all the good that we do.
But Jehovah does.
Say, when we defend a friend who isn't there to defend themselves,
or we resisted a temptation, or our prayers for others that only Jehovah knows about.
Unfortunately, we don't have to report every good deed to Jehovah.
We're listed in our prayers at night.
Here's all the good things that we did that day.
We're content with knowing that Jehovah saw them all and was pleased with us.
Jesus was content with knowing that Jehovah saw and was pleased with what he was doing.
If we look at John chapter 8 and verse 29,
John chapter 8 and verse 29,
he says, and though one who sent me is with me,
he did not abandon me to myself because I always do the things pleasing to him.
So Jesus knew that he was not alone in seeing the good things that he was doing.
Even if he was falsely accused or as a poser's light about him,
he knew that he was doing the things that were pleasing to Jehovah.
Well, what lesson is there for us in that?
It's very comforting.
Jehovah sees all the good that we do,
and nothing good that we do is missed by him.
Well, how can knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do help us when we're falsely accused?
This is what you said.
No, I didn't say that.
Sometimes we wish you had a recording, or you could go back in time.
But sometimes, of course, it doesn't make a difference no matter what you say.
You think of how Maphibosheth may have felt when slandered by Zyba to King David.
Do you think Maphibosheth wished he had an eyewitness or a recording?
You know, to kind of illustrate the power of an eyewitness,
I want you to imagine a traffic accident.
You're just sitting at a stop sign,
and another car comes around the corner and runs right into you.
Now, when the police come, shockingly,
the person who ran into you says you ran into them,
and the police believe them.
You take the matter to court.
The judge listens as the other person testifies in detail how you ran into them.
But before you can say anything,
the judge says, no, that is not what happened.
I was walking on the sidewalk that day, and I saw the whole thing.
Now, who would imagine that the judge in your case actually was an eyewitness?
You say to yourself, well, if I had known that,
I wouldn't have been so worried about what was going to happen in court today.
Now, while it's extremely unlikely that you're going to go to court,
and the judge is going to be an eyewitness for you,
but this does illustrate the peace of mind that we can have in knowing
that Jehovah is an eyewitness to all that happens.
So the lesson for us, when we're falsely accused,
it is of great comfort for us to know that Jehovah was there that day and saw the whole thing.
Now, knowing that Jehovah sees all the good that we do can also help us avoid putting on a pretense.
Jehovah is not fooled by people who do good deeds just to be seen by others.
The Pharisees of Jesus' day, they just loved to put on a pretense of righteousness.
And Jesus tells an illustration that really exemplified that point.
If we go to Luke chapter 18 and verses 9 through 14,
that's Luke 18 verses 9 through 14.
It says, he also told this illustration to some who trusted in their own righteousness
and who considered others as nothing.
Two men went up into the temple to pray, the one of Pharisee and the other attacks collector.
The Pharisees stood and began to pray these things to Himself.
Oh, God, I thank You that I'm not like everyone else,
extortioners and unrighteous and adulterers, or even like this tax collector.
I fast twice a week. I give the tenth of all things I acquire.
But the tax collector, standing at a distance,
was not willing even to raise his eyes, heavenward,
but kept beating his chest saying, oh, God, be gracious to me, a sinner.
I tell you, this man went down to his home and proved more righteous than that Pharisee,
because everyone who exalts himself will be humiliated,
but whoever humbles himself will be exalted.
So the Pharisee was trying to impress Jehovah with listing all of his so-called good deeds.
And it's true, Jehovah sees all the good that we do,
but he also sees the motive behind it.
We never want to fool ourselves that simply doing good things that others can see
does not hide who we really are from Jehovah.
The lesson for us is the good things that we do are because we love Jehovah,
not because we want praise or credit from others.
We believe that Jehovah sees all the good that we do also makes us comfortable
with Jehovah as our judge.
We're all going to be judged by Jehovah.
Eventually, we'll all be judged as either worthy of life or judged as worthy of death.
How comforting it is to know that Jehovah,
the one who's going to make that life or death decision,
is someone who knows everything about us.
The judge we mentioned in the illustration earlier, you didn't even have to testify.
The judge already knew exactly what had happened.
Have you ever thought after someone compliments you or says you're great
or you did something wonderful?
You think to yourself, yeah, but you really don't know me that well.
On the other hand, there are people who know you really well.
They've known you for many years.
They've been through some good times and some bad times with you,
yet they still love you.
And you think to yourself, wow, with all they know about me and all that we've been through,
they still love me.
That's amazing.
Jehovah knows everything about us,
even if we've made mistakes or sins.
If we repent and we continue to try to do what is right, he still loves us.
Now, I have no doubt that as you take some time to meditate on our texts for today,
you could come up with many more lessons to apply in our day-to-day lives
by knowing that Jehovah is watching and seeing all the good that we do.
You know, as we read earlier, Jesus said that Jehovah had not left him to himself,
and Jehovah has not left us to ourselves.
He is with us.
He sees us.
He knows us.
And he loves us for all the good that we do.
Jehovah is generous in taking the time to see us,
not as a large group of worshippers,
but as unique individuals.
That's how we see each of our hardworking sisters too.
This is beautifully expressed in this month's music video.
I hope these words help.
Dear sisters, you are wonderful examples.
We appreciate all that you do.
We love you dearly.
In this month's program, we were encouraged to imitate Jehovah's generosity
by showing hospitality.
We uncovered a valuable lesson about loyal love in the book of Hosea.
And we were reminded that the hard work parents put into training their children
produces strong faith and a sure hope.
For this month's postcard, we travel to French Guyana in South America.
This is a lush, tropical land.
Well, over 90% of French Guyana is covered in forest,
fed by heavy rains from December to July.
An extraordinary variety of plants, mammals, birds, and insects thrive here.
Beautiful diversity is also seen in the people and the many cultures.
Among them, Creole, French, Surinamees, Brazilian and South Asian.
This land became a French colony in the 17th century.
For decades, thousands of convicts were sentenced to forced labor
in places like Royal Island, Devils Island, and Kuru.
Happily, those things are in the past.
Today, French Guyana remains part of the French Republic
though it's more than 4,000 miles from France.
Kuru is now the site of a European Space Agency Center.
The Kingdom message first reached French Guyana
when brother Olga Lawland, a zealous minister from Guadalupe, arrived in 1945.
Over the next two years, he joyfully shared the good news in villages,
gold mines, and trading posts.
Though his stay was temporary, he planted many seeds of truth.
Xavier and Sarah Noll, after graduating from Gilead in 1958,
went to help a small group in the capital city Cayenne,
which is said to be the birthplace of Cayenne Pepper.
Soon brother Noll was conducting daily Bible studies with Christian Bonacaz.
Within a short time, Christian and his friends became the first baptized witnesses in French Guyana.
Today, an average of 3,000 publishers proclaimed the good news.
Recently, two milestones were reached.
A peak of 700 regular pioneers and a record memorial attendance of more than 11,500,
nearly four times the number of publishers.
Although most of the population is concentrated in and around Cayenne,
our brothers work hard to find people everywhere.
This isn't easy. Only 40% of the country's roads are paved.
Some rivers have treacherous rapids, bearing names like Sofraka or Crash Rapids.
And Ajuvat, which translates into, that's the end of it.
Undaunted, publishers travel by boat to reach people in distant territories.
Preaching is done in many languages, including Polycore, Tilly Wii U, and Mung.
Three congregations serve the needs of those who speak Saramakan.
Seven congregations and a remote translation office support the French Guyanae's Creole field.
When our brothers gather for association, they enjoy dancing, singing, and playing music.
A famous local dish called Wion Darawa can often be found on the table.
This is a stew made of the pulp of Arawa fruit, and is typically mixed with smoked meats and fresh seafood.
As we depart French Guyana, we receive warm greetings from our brothers and sisters
who meet at the San Laurent du Moronee Kingdom Hall, and from the remote translation office in Cayenne.
They say to us, New Cortezat, we love you.
From the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.